# NLP-Movie-Recommender
A system to recommend movies using only user-input free-form text requests for movies.

# Problem Statement:

Recommender systems for movies usually rely either on user similarity or pre-defined features that a user can select. A more flexible type of recommender could take in a sentence, a paragraph, or even a few key words, and return movie recommendations. This project is an attempt to create such a recommender, using data scraped from public internet conversations about movie suggestions. This could potentially result in a powerful recommender that can find connections between movies that a traditional recommender cannot, and can adapt to meet users' specific requests. The goal is to have a working system that takes a user's query and returns a handful of movie titles by predicting the most likely human responses to the given text query.

# Data:

Data was scraped from www.reddit.com/r/moviesuggestions, where users can make requests for movie suggestions from other users. From this subreddit, 11,329 posts were marked 'Request', providing the desired request-suggestion format for building the database. Movie data was compiled from IMDB's freely available data, and titles from the most popular movies in this database were used to find suggestions among the comments. Some requests did not yeild any suggestions, either because none were given, or none were found. From this data, 8,686 requests were matched with a total of 188,964 non-duplicate suggestions, representing 8,580 movies. The request text and suggested titles form the database used for this project.

# Executive Summary

Submissions and their respective comments were scraped using the PushShift API. The IMDB data contained well over 500,000 titles, so that was filtered down to include only the most popular (votes > 5000) movies in the U.S. region, narrowing the number of films down to less than 12,000. The titles, including alternate titles, were matched to comments using spaCy phrasematcher and regular expressions to pick up on poorly formatted titles. However, mis-spelled or abbreviated titles (which are not listed among the alternate titles) cannot be matched. 8,580 of these movies were matched in at least one comment. Comments were not explored past the top level of comments to avoid matching on unrelated discussion, and top-level comments by bots and request submitters were ignored. Comments with scores less than 1 were also excluded, as that is an indication that the suggestion is not appropriate for the given request.

For natural language processing, the corpus is composed of the request titles and selftext, combined for each submission to create a single document. The data is split into training and testing sets, so that the recommender can be tested on unseen data by treating the testing documents as if they were queries for the system. To evaluate the system, recall and sometimes accuracy (in situations such as Keras' multilabel accuracy score where they are the same metric) are used as the metric of choice when comparing machine to human recommendations. While this metric can inform feature selection and model tuning, a good recommender does not necessarily match human recommendations. This will always be a limitation, and some intuition will have to be applied to evaluate the system alongside more rigorous metrics.